Computer Vision Engineer (Grading Applications)

Factored was conceived in Palo Alto, California by Andrew Ng and a team of highly experienced AI researchers, educators, and engineers to help address the significant shortage of qualified AI & Machine-Learning engineers globally. We know that exceptional technical aptitude, intelligence, communication skills, and passion are equally distributed around the world, and we are very committed to testing, vetting, and nurturing the most talented engineers for our program and on behalf of our clients.

We are looking for a hands-on, experienced Computer Vision Engineer to take the lead in developing cutting-edge visual inspection systems for automated cosmetic grading of high-resolution images. You’ll be at the forefront of AI development for a highly nuanced problem: detecting and classifying subtle visual defects like scratches, cracks, and blemishes on mobile devices — while tackling challenges like debris, lighting inconsistencies, and subjective human labels.

Functional Responsibilities:

Design, train, and deploy deep learning models (e.g., CNNs) for fine-grained visual inspection and defect detection tasks.
Apply advanced image analysis techniques such as segmentation, feature extraction, and contrast enhancement to improve model accuracy and defect visibility.
Build Cosmetic Grading models to classify surface conditions and assign quality grades in accordance with cosmetic standards and internal benchmarks.
Develop techniques to address inconsistencies in human annotations using: Label smoothing/ soft labeling, consensus modeling, uncertainty quantification or Human-in-the-loop feedback.
Architect and manage image data pipelines from acquisition to annotation and model training.
Work closely with software engineers, QA teams, and hardware support teams to integrate models into production workflows.

Qualifications: 

4+ years of hands-on experience developing and deploying computer vision models in real-world applications.
Strong experience in cosmetic or defect grading applications, especially in manufacturing, logistics, or visual inspection environments.
Proven track record working with image classification, segmentation, and object detection.
Solid Python skills and experience with deep learning frameworks (PyTorch, TensorFlow).
Strong understanding of image preprocessing methods (e.g., normalization, augmentation, filtering).
Experience working on cloud platforms, preferably AWS.
Proven ability to collaborate with multidisciplinary teams (software, hardware, product).
Excellent verbal and written communication skills in English.
At Factored, we believe that passionate, smart people expect honesty and transparency, as well as the freedom to do the best work of their lives while learning and growing as much as possible. Great people enjoy working with other passionate, smart people, so we believe in hiring right, and are very selective about who joins our team. Once we hire you, we will invest in you and support your career and professional growth in many meaningful ways. We hire people who are supremely intelligent and talented, but we recognize that intelligence is not enough. Perhaps more importantly, we look for those who are also passionate about our mission and are honest, diligent, collaborative, kind to others, and fun to be around. Life is too short to work with people who don’t inspire you.

We are a transparent workplace, where EVERYBODY has a voice in building OUR company, and where learning and growth are available to everyone based on their merits, not just on stamps on their resume. As impressive as some of the stamps on our resumes are, we recognize that human talent and passion exist everywhere, and come from many backgrounds, so stamps matter much less than results. All of us are dedicated doers and are highly energetic, focusing vehemently on execution because we know that the best learning happens by doing. We recognize that we are creating OUR COMPANY TOGETHER, which is not only a high-performing fast-growing business but is changing the way the world perceives the quality of technical talent in Latin America. We are fueled by the great positive impact we are making in the places where we do business and are committed to accelerating careers and investing in hundreds (and hopefully thousands) of highly talented data science engineers and data analysts.

In short, our business is about people, so we hire the best people and invest as much as possible in making them fall in love with their work, their learning, and their mission. When not nerding out on data science, we love to make music together, play sports, play games, dance salsa, cook delicious food, brew the best coffee, throw the best parties, and generally have a great time with each other.
